Book-Review - Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!

This book is a series of autobiographical anecdotes written by famous physicist Richard Feynman. He about his amazing curiosity and experimental nature that made him do crazy experiments and pranks at his home, at MIT, and at other places that he went. Most of the stories involve him discovering a hidden talent, using it, delighting others (or himself if that's his real goal) and then being applauded for it . 

He takes great interest in doing things, dwelling deep into the problem, often being obsessed by it. He tells in the beginning of the book that this attitude of not quitting on a puzzle or a problem helped him a lot and gained him a good reputation among his peers. I was very impressed by this philosophy, persistence is very important in our lives. 

He writes very smoothly, the writing and the ideas are easy to follow. Good amount of scientific explanation is provided for each invention or experiment. He writes about his life philosophy, how he tried biology once, how he tried music, or the work he did in his childhood. Later on in the book he writes about his marriages, and his wives. There is a funny, easygoing flow to the entire book, and he manages to make us laugh sometimes. Some readers might think that the book revolves entirely around him showing off. To some extent that might be true ! However it is very delightful to go with his ideas, and so I wouldn’t mind a little self-obsession. 


For me, the most important lesson that the book tries to teach is that one should always be curious about one’s own surroundings and be willing to get one’s hands dirty if required to get to an answer. Education is there to help us in knowing about our surroundings, and one should take it positively rather than as a burden as seen by many of the students today. This philosophy of feynman is reflected throughout the book. This idea reflects the true essence of education. We should try to create passion for our work through curiosity and then work really hard to solve our problems. This way, work becomes fun. 


